# Forced Migration and Information-Seeking Behavior on Wikipedia: Insights from the Ukrainian Refugee Crisis

## Abstract  
Gathering information about where to migrate to is an important component of the migration process, particularly in the context of forced migration, when individuals must make rapid decisions under conditions of uncertainty. In this study, we investigate the relationship between forced migration and online information-seeking behavior on Wikipedia. Focusing on the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, we analyze how the resulting refugee crisis, which led to over six million Ukrainians fleeing to countries across Europe, affected information-seeking behavior on Wikipedia, as measured by views of articles about European cities. We compared changes in the number of views of Ukrainian-language Wikipedia articles, used as a proxy for information-seeking by Ukrainians, with those in four other language editions of Wikipedia. Our results show that views of Ukrainian-language Wikipedia articles about European cities are more strongly correlated with the number of Ukrainian refugees who applied for temporary protection in European countries than views of articles in other languages. As Poland and Germany emerged as the main destinations of Ukrainian refugees, we investigated further and found that the number of applications for temporary protection in Polish and German cities is also more strongly correlated with views of their respective Wikipedia articles in Ukrainian. Finally, we analyzed the temporal relationship between refugee flows to Poland and information-seeking on Wikipedia. Our findings reveal that refugee border crossings preceded the increase in views of Ukrainian-language Wikipedia articles about Polish cities, suggesting that information-seeking surged after displacement. This highlights the reactive nature of information-seeking behavior during forced migration, in contrast to the pre-departure planning behavior that is characteristic of regular labor migration. However, while official applications for protection often lagged behind border crossings by at least a couple of weeks, Wikipedia activity increased almost immediately after border crossings. Thus, information-seeking on Wikipedia can offer a near real-time indicator of emerging migration patterns during crises.


## Citation  
Vieira, C. C., Sanlitürk, E., \& Zagheni, E. (2026). "Forced Migration and Information-Seeking Behavior on Wikipedia: Insights from the Ukrainian Refugee Crisis." In the Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Web and Social Media (ICWSM).



